A dual‑track NIL valuation, reporting, and exchange system integrating BiomechFlow™ physiological intelligence, NIL Intel (NIL Swaps), and the BLEI‑E Multi‑Asset Risk Engine.

This repository is the NIL economics layer of the broader Biometric Finance Stack, connecting athlete physiology → NIL valuation → equity‑market risk.

Overview

This project implements the world’s first institutional‑grade NIL valuation and exchange system, designed for:

    College athletics (Track A)

    Professional NIL markets & derivative exposure (Track B)

    Sponsor, agency, and franchise valuation workflows

    Integration with BLEI‑E factor modeling

    BiomechFlow™ biometric intelligence ingestion

The system is built on real code — TypeScript, Node, PostgreSQL, React — and is designed for bank‑grade deployment, hedge‑fund‑grade analytics, and sports‑ops usability.

Core Components
1. BiomechFlow™ Intelligence Engine

BiomechFlow is the physiological signal layer powering NIL valuation and BLEI‑E factorization.

From your uploaded pitch deck:

    “5 capsule zones translate physiology into financial intelligence.”

BiomechFlow captures:

    Glow Ring → Defensive Pressure Index (DP+)

    Top Arc → Burst Meter

    Bottom Arc → Tempo Clock

    Left Bar → Leadership Impact Score

    Right Bar → HRV/PD Testing

BiomechFlow → NIL Intel = pricing the athlete  
BiomechFlow → BLEI‑E = pricing the market’s reaction to the athlete

2. NIL Intel — Dual‑Track NIL Valuation Engine

This repository contains the full NIL Intel system described in your documents.

From your uploaded deck:

    “Historical biometric statistics drive NIL market pricing.”

Track A — College NIL Valuation

    Model NIL (intrinsic value)

    Market NIL (demand‑driven value)

    NIL Units (Boosts, Votes, Fan Tipping)

    NIL Divergence

    Sponsor Buyout

    CPM/CPI settlement

Track B — Professional NIL Exchange

    NIL Valuation Swaps (fixed vs floating)

    Cohort baskets

    Exposure management

    Pro‑tier reporting

3. BLEI‑E — Multi‑Asset Risk Engine Integration

BLEI‑E converts biometric and NIL signals into tradeable equity‑market risk factors.

From the BLEI‑E whitepaper:

    “BLEI‑E detects athlete-driven events — injuries, viral moments, behavioral shifts, biometric performance peaks — and predicts sponsor equity moves, media stock dislocations, and betting platform volatility before markets react.”

BLEI‑E provides:

    PMF‑E (Physiological Market Factor)

    SEF‑E (Sponsor Equity Factor)

    VVE‑E (Viral Virality Equity Factor)

    FBR‑E (Fan Base Revenue Factor)

    CSE‑E (Cortisol Stress Equity Factor)

    CRS (Composite Risk Score 0–4)

This repo feeds BLEI‑E with NIL valuation, divergence, and BiomechFlow‑derived signals.

/src
  /valuation        # Model NIL, Market NIL, Divergence, NIL Units
  /swaps            # NIL Swaps, cohort baskets, exposure engine
  /biomechflow      # BiomechFlow capsule ingestion + mapping
  /api              # REST + WebSocket endpoints
  /db               # PostgreSQL schema + migrations
  /ui               # React dashboards (NIL cards, divergence charts)
  /integration      # BLEI‑E factor hooks + CRS mapping
/docs
  whitepaper.pdf
  api_specification.md
  governance_protocol.md
README.md

Live Use Case — Portland Trail Blazers (2025–26)

From your uploaded project description:

    “Designed and delivered a full‑stack Player Development Intelligence system… built on the proprietary BiomechFlow capsule framework.”

This repo’s NIL Intel + BiomechFlow modules were validated through:

    24‑drill BiomechFlow PD library

    Real‑time biometric ingestion

    12‑week PD plans

    Athlete‑controlled biometric privacy protocols

Installation
git clone https://github.com/drb-apes/institutional-grade-nil-valuation-reporting-and-exchange
cd institutional-grade-nil-valuation-reporting-and-exchange
npm install
npm run dev

